---
title: Wordpress Inspection Checklist
category: "Back-End"
date: "2020-08-07"
tags: ['wordpress', 'php', 'cms']
description: A set of steps to regularly check our Wordpress setups (production, staging, development).
featured: true
---

- [ ] Change table prefix for all Wordpress tables  
Change table prefix from `wp_` to something else. You can change this either setting up or in `wp-config.php` file.

- [ ] Ensure Wordpress core and Plugin versions are updated  
Always make sure that you are using the updated WP and plugin versions.

- [ ] Remove any themes or plugins that are not active  
Remove the inactive themes or plugins that are not in use.

- [ ] Keep only one theme as backup and remove the rest unwanted themes  
Keep on of the default theme as fallback and remove the rest of the theme.

- [ ] Make sure 404 page is created  
Be sure to follow the steps [here](/checklist/designing-a-404-page).

- [ ] Do not use root/admin user accounts. Every user should has his own account  
Prevent using root/admin user accounts. These will be dummy accounts and can easily be recognized.

- [ ] Create an editor role user account specifically for publishing the content  
To differentiate and keep the track of the contents update it will be ideal to have an editor account for publishing content. So that no other settings are changed.

- [ ] Update the admin email address  
Update this to be the project group address instead of your individual GSuite account.

- [ ] Check crawl settings  
Uncheck the discourage indexing checkbox for the live site. Staging/development environments should not be crawled.

- [ ] Change Security Key (Generator provided by WordPress.org)  
Change the Security key/Salt key generated by WP.

- [ ] Delete wp-config-sample.php  
Remove the `wp-config-sample.php` file.

- [ ] Continue with the security checks  
Follow the [Wordpress Security Checklist](/checklist/wordpress-security-checklist).